Roadmap updates per meeting this week (#498)
jaegertracing/documentation: content/roadmap.md

title: Roadmap
---

The following is only a selection of some of the major features we plan to implement, some of which are near term and some are longer term. We have tried to put these in rough priority as well as having a wishlist at the end. To get a more complete overview of planned features and current work, see the issue trackers for the various repositories, for example, the [Jaeger backend](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/).

## Aggregated Trace Metrics (ATM)

> Aggregated trace metrics can be exported by the OpenTelemetry Collector [/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/spanmetricsprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/spanmetricsprocessor) this allows metrics to be calculated off trace data and metrics to be exported from the Collector. We are adapting Jaeger to be able to read metrics from a Prometheus compatible backend, but additional backends may be supported. For additional information see [jaeger/pull/2946](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/pull/2946). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aggregated trace metrics can be exported from the OpenTelemetry Collector by [spanmetricsprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/spanmetricsprocessor) that allows metrics to be calculated from trace data. We are adapting Jaeger to be able to read metrics from a Prometheus compatible backend, but additional backends may be supported. For additional information see [jaeger/pull/2946](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/pull/2946). 
```

Reviewer: It's better to link to an issue rather than pull request: https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-ui/issues/736

Author: That issue is for the UI, not the Otel processor. I linked to https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/issues/2954 which is the master issue for the UI change.

  * Black/whitelisting services for adaptive sampling,
  * etc.

> ## Ideation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Wishlist
```

* Multi-Tenancy ([mailgroup thread](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/jaeger-tracing/PcxftflO4_o))
* Cloud and Multi-DC strategy

> * Anomaly detection of flagging of traces

Reviewer: flagging?

Author: I will show you a POC of the flagging in a forthcoming community meeting. We did a POC of this already. Just haven't discussed it yet :)

> * Baselining of trace metrics

Reviewer: elaborate?

Author: Haven't discussed this one yet with you, but the idea would be to provide a proactive way to identify problems happening outside of a normal pattern. Building some basic baseline of the metrics and showing deviations. This is something Prometheus doesn't do today. It could belong as a Prometheus feature, but it depends how it's used inside Jaeger.

> * Alerting

Reviewer: hmmm... What kind of alerting (considering that you already have anomaly detection above)?

Author: Notifications, email/slack or maybe integrate with Alertmanager? I have some other ideas here potentially which I will bring up in a community call leveraging some of the OpenSearch capabilities which are plugins: https://opendistro.github.io/for-elasticsearch-docs/docs/alerting/ which might allow us to integrate. Of course these are all ideas we need to discuss.
